all right chat so now what i'm gonna try
to do
is teach y'all how to convince anyone of
anything
so a couple weeks ago we had a wonderful
guest on stream a guy named jimmy from
philly
and people were very surprised because
you know jimmy from philly was sort of
introduced
as like a die-hard trump supporter so
people thought that he was going to be
like very irrational and like all that
kind of stuff
and so what i've found is that when
people try to like convince people of
things they're do they do a bad job
and so today what we're going to talk
about is like a basic guide to like
convincing people of things and
communicating with people okay
and what i'm going to share with you all
is a methodology that i use that will
enhance your own communication a lot of
people were surprised and were like oh
like i can't believe that dr k was able
to talk to jimmy from philly and like
that didn't go where i expected it i
didn't go where i expected it either but
it turns out that there's a lot of stuff
that you can learn about communication
that can really help you convince people
of things that you know they may be
resistant to understand
so we're going to take a a case from our
reddit okay
my mother refuses to get vaccinated and
it's causing obvious and it's causing
obvious strain in our relationships
um so
i want to preface this by saying uh i'm
a 27 year old married and have my own
apartment with my wife so it's not like
i'm trapped living with my parents
anyway on to the actual topic i came
here to post my mom has slowly become
further right over the years which is
completely fine i don't agree with all
of her political opinions but everyone
is entitled to their own politics i just
try not to talk about it
once covet happened she radicalized
quickly buying into q and on and other
conspiracy-esque theories i thought i
think that the she needed to cope with
everything blah blah blah
she retweeted too much disinformation
with the point she was banned from
twitter
um
so she's been showing me bombshell
videos saying things like if the vaccine
works
so well why are people with the vaccine
worried about me not having it what
happened to my body my choice
i still love my mom
what set her off recently was one of my
relatives sending an email that she was
going to have a housewarming party but
everyone is in attendance needed to be
fully vaccinated my mom took this as a
personal attack on her because everyone
knows she isn't vaccinated and she is to
my knowledge the only one in my extended
family on the side who is not
i was on the phone with her last night
for almost an hour while she vented
about being treated like a leper and
everyone hating her
i tried to get her to understand that if
she just swallowed her pride and got the
vaccine everything could go back to
normal to some extent but she
unsurprisingly didn't want to hear it
she believed all along that she is
healthy and does not need the vaccine
and now there is evidence that the
vaccine is dangerous
so she has dug in her heels even more
i'm sure that there's no convincing her
to get vaccinated but it's also causing
me a great deal of personal stress she
is burning bridges with people close to
her
just so she can stubbornly say i told
you so on the minuscule chance that
there is some global conspiracy going on
it's painful to see how unhappy she is
and i don't have a solution i guess i'm
not really sure what i'm asking here but
maybe someone has advice for how i can
mentally deal with the situation if
you've actually read through this i
appreciate you taking the time
so this is a great
post and is unfortunately a really
common problem so we're going to take a
step back
and i'm going to share with you all my
perspective on like how to convince
people of things okay
so the first thing to understand is as a
psychiatrist it is my job to convince
people of things that they don't want to
do that's like literally my job so i'll
give you all an example
the best evidence-based treatment for
psychotic disorders is a medication
called clozapine
so clozapine has been shown through
numerous clinical trials
to outperform any other antipsychotic
agent so it like reduces the severity of
hallucinations and delusions and all
that good stuff also improves mood the
most
may improve some degree of cognitive
functions
the problem is that cause clozapine has
some really terrible side effects like
the worst side effects of any well i
don't know about any medication i've
ever prescribed but like it's like
definitely up there so clozapine will
cause you to gain 50 to 100 pounds
will cause you to feel like cognitively
dulled and slowed so you can't do
creative work will make you sleepy
and the most bizarre um
side effect of clozapine which makes
people absolutely hate it is it
suppresses your swallowing reflex
this is something that's really
interesting because it's something that
we really take for granted so our body
has and our brain and mouth has a has a
reflex that causes us to swallow our
saliva at periodic intervals
so once you suppress that
can you guess what happens
people start to drool like literally
like there will be saliva like leaking
out of their mouth
so sometimes i'll have someone who's got
severe mental illness and they've tried
other medications and despite on those
other medications it doesn't seem to
work they get kicked out of their house
because they're delusional they like you
know get into fights with other people
it's really sad
and so sometimes what i really have to
do is convince them to try clozapine and
it's tough because like it involves
convincing someone to literally like
you're going to be cognitively dulled
you're going to gain 100 pounds and
you're going to drool
like it's going to be terrible it's an
awful medication also is a very good
medication it's part of why you know
western medicine is hard
so like and so i practiced that
convincing people how to do this and i
was pretty successful and a lot of
people get on clozapine and they tend to
do a good job i also do this as an
addiction psychiatrist in terms of like
convincing people to stop using
substances
so here's kind of what i've learned
about how to convince someone and and
i'm pretty sure and i've convinced
anti-vaxxers to take vaccines
um you know i've convinced a lot of
people to do things that they're very
resistant to do so here's basically like
my solution or like my playbook to how
to convince someone and i've done like a
lot of this successfully it doesn't
always work
but i think it's pretty effective so the
first thing to understand is that
proving someone else wrong is a terrible
way to convince them that you're right
so somewhere along the way we as a
society thought that debate is like a
good way to convince people right so
like we have this assumption in our mind
that if i debate someone and i win the
debate
then like the other party should be
convinced like showing them why they're
wrong and why i'm correct
should logically result in them changing
their behavior but this is absolutely
incorrect it's just not how it works
okay so i want you guys to think for a
second about what happens in a debate so
if you like go on youtube and you watch
debates between like people's like let's
say like um you know richard dawkins or
like um you know christopher hitchens or
like ben shapiro or jordan peterson or
you know whoever
basically you've got two people that are
debating each other
and like how often do they convince each
other that they're wrong like it's like
damn close to zero so if we really look
at debate the purpose of debate is for
two people to disagree with each other
or like let's look at political debate
so how often does uh let's say a liberal
candidate convince a conservative
candidate that the conservative
candidate is wrong like never how often
does a conservative candidate convince a
liberal candidate that they're wrong
the answer is never
so if you think about debate for a
second so take a step back and think
about what's the purpose of debate it's
not to convince the other person it's to
convince the audience it's to convince
hopefully the neutral parties that are
listening so the first thing that i want
you all to dispense with is
any kind of debate or argument if you
actually want to convince someone of
something okay it is the worst way to
convince someone so if you prove them
wrong you're not going to convince them
you're right in fact you're going to do
the absolute opposite and oftentimes
what happens in situations like this is
the more evidence you have on your side
the more the other person feels bullied
and persecuted because they can't defend
themselves but just because they can't
defend themselves doesn't mean that
they're going to change their mind
they're just going to feel attacked and
they're you're going to make them feel
like an idiot which is going to cause
them to dig their heels in more and push
back against what you're trying to
convince them of
so just let go of like trying to
convince them through argument because
it's not going to work
second thing is let go of judgment okay
so most people like assume that they're
right
but what we so like i think i'm right
the other person thinks that they're
right and if you go into a conversation
like convinced that the other person is
an idiot and is wrong
your chances of convincing them are like
very very low
instead what you need to do is go in
assuming that they are right and do your
level best to understand their
perspective now how does this help it
does a couple of things the first and i
think most important one is something
called emotional mirroring
so back when i was like working in the
emergency room like an emergency
psychiatry which is something i really
enjoyed doing so i even did extra you
know i would work like weekends and
stuff in hospitals
so in the emergency room like sometimes
you'll get people who are like high on
cocaine okay so i'm going to ask you all
a question so if i get so if i get a
patient who's high on cocaine and i step
into the room and they start yelling at
me they're like who the f are you like
what are you doing here i want to get
out of here right away like screw you
screw the establishment screw all
psychiatrists what's the right thing for
me to do what should i do
what do y'all think
so everyone's saying
calm them down defuse leave
incorrect
what you should do is yell back i know
it sounds absolutely crazy but it works
magic okay so this is what happens i
start yelling back i'm like bro what the
hell is wrong with you i just walked in
the door you don't even know my name and
you're yelling at me
i'm a doctor i'm here to help you i'm i
showed up here to try to figure out what
i can do for you
i'm not your enemy like i literally
walked in the room to try to figure out
why the hell you're here whether you
need to be here and i'm the guy who
you're supposed to talk to so you can
get the hell out of here why are you
yelling at me
and then what happens so then i match
his emotional level and then i reduce
mine and then i take a step back and
then i apologize to him and i say to him
bro i'm sorry like i just walked in the
door you yelled at me like it's not fair
like i can't imagine what you've been
through seems like you don't want to be
here seems like maybe you don't need to
be here and i'm coming in you're yelling
at me honestly i've been working for 14
hours on this shift it was unfair for me
to yell at you
and so the first thing is like you know
he's escalating like when i'm escalating
and then when i tone down he's like
what
he gets confused and then like like he
gets down to his level and then most of
the time what happens is he apologizes
too so i know it sounds kind of bizarre
but you can even do this like in a video
game so if someone flames me sometimes
what i'll do is flame them back a little
bit
and then i'll apologize and it
completely takes like the air out of
them they're like screw you and i'm like
screw you like you they're like you fed
like like support's not warding and i'm
like screw you you fed mid two times and
then i'll say i'm sorry bro it's like
not your fault i should award it
like you know
i'm having a rough day i've lost two
games in a row my bad
and then
it's like kind of hard like they don't
really know what to do kind of confuses
them
when you say it never happens in my game
so i'd encourage you all to try it out
so
online games are also tough because
you're like handicapped in terms of
communication because half the time
they're not even paying attention you're
saying so i'm not saying it's like 100
but emotionally mirroring and like lots
like you know harvard business review
and places like that will write all
these articles about you know emotional
mirroring and interviews and like if
someone else crosses their legs like you
should cross cross your legs to someone
else like if you're in an interview or
you're asking for promotion and your
boss like picks his nose and eats it
like you should pick your nose and eat
it too because you're emotional
mirroring i think some of that stuff is
like a little bit silly
but
it turns out that our brain does have
this circuit
that like mirrors like what other human
beings are are doing it's also why like
if you think about it you know like if
everyone's at the funeral crying like
it's easier for you to cry like you can
walk into a room where everyone's
laughing and like you'll start smiling
you don't even understand why okay
so this is why you should let go of
judgment and treat them with respect
right so like understand for a moment
that most human beings are like within
the bell curve of like normal iq people
aren't stupid right if they believe
something there's a damn good reason
they believe it now their reasons may
not be factually correct but inside
their mind there's absolutely a coherent
logical structure in their mind no one
thinks oh i don't want to get vaccinated
because i'm not logical and i'm an idiot
no one thinks that right like
everyone thinks they're smart everyone
thinks they're logical and in their mind
there is a logical system so approach
the conversation free of judgment and
respecting the other person from the
get-go understand that this human being
is chances are is like
basically just as smart as i am
and they have come to this conclusion
and they hold this conclusion very very
strongly so i need to understand like
how they got to this conclusion okay
so the next thing is so as you talk to
them like don't try to convince them
that they're wrong
try to understand that process of how
they got to their conclusion and
genuinely try to understand it and as if
they are wrong
like so with anti-vaxxers for example
you're gonna sense weaknesses in their
argument and so that's when the debater
and with you is gonna be like hey that's
dumb hey what about this and you're
gonna wanna pounce on the weakness of
their argument and show them in that
moment how they are wrong and you were
right that is a hundred percent a
mistake so anytime you see a weakness in
your argument don't attack express
confusion okay so if something doesn't
line up to you they're the expert and
you're the idiot and express confusion
and be like hey i'm confused for a
second like you're saying that science
can't be trusted
but generally speaking like i thought
that you're taking you know like
medications and stuff like you're taking
your asthma medication can you help me
understand like why you trust asthma
medication but you don't trust the like
the covet information i'm a little bit
confused about that
and so they may say oh well like people
have been taking asthma medication for
years or like my doctor actually
recommended this to me and i trust my
doctor and my doctor knows me really
well
and so like
no they they won't they won't get pissed
as long as you genuinely ask and assume
that they're correct
right so you you just like when when you
notice some problem don't attack because
our the reason they get defensive and
they get pissed is because we attack we
say hey it's dumb for you to think that
way don't you see this contradiction
it's not a contradiction it's just
something it's a gap in your
understanding so ask them to educate you
about the gap in your understanding hey
i don't understand that
because on the one hand i know you take
asthma medication on the other hand you
don't trust this so like help me
understand why one of these is
trustworthy and the other one isn't it's
not haha
you should trust it you see you're
trusting it over here and not trusting
it over there haha gotcha don't do that
be like genuinely like this could be a
reason right some people may take asthma
medication but won't take clozapine that
has nothing to do with a general
distrust of science it's because there
could be all kinds of reasons right it's
like one causes me to gain 100 pounds
and drool
and the other one
you know helps me breathe easier that's
why i take one and not the other
so don't point out that contradiction is
an attack which is what most people do
that comes from the debating mentality
which is used to convince a third party
not the person you're debating
so once you've understood them kind of
repeat back their argument and say okay
here i understand so like i understand
that like you know the mr8 mrna
technology is new and you don't really
trust it because we don't have any
long-term data on how it works which is
like true
right we don't really have long term
life you're willing to take some
vaccines because like the polio vaccine
for example people have been given for
50 years and so you understand it say oh
it makes a lot of sense to me
then ask them for permission to share
your point of view okay so you can say
like is it okay if i share with you like
why i decided to get a vaccine and how
i'm looking at it
and then address in when you share their
point of view what you kind of want to
do is like address some points of their
their perspective which you kind of
disagree with but do so in kind of a
non-judgmental way
and you can say like you know on the one
hand i totally get that like you know
this vaccine is a new technology and may
cause
some problems and we don't really know
at the same time like i think that based
on the science that i've looked at like
it seems like you know that the side
effects of the vaccine are quite small
and concede their points wherever you
can but still like hold your own right
so you can say that
you know i understand why you're saying
a b and c but like based on the way that
i'm looking at it i think of like d e
and f you're not trying to convince them
you're just asking them if they're
willing to try to understand your point
of view and here's where the emotional
mirroring comes in because if you've
made a concerted effort to understand
their point of view and treat them with
respect it'll be like magic they will do
the same for you
and you'll walk away from that
conversation with them thinking you are
like reasonable for your beliefs like
i'm i'm i'm not saying it's like 100
you get a die hard anti-vaxxer like you
have to do some work to get there
but generally speaking like if you treat
their views with respect
they will treat your views with respect
and then you get to a very special place
where you can treat each other with
respect and still disagree
and then ask for their opinion about
what you believe and you can say what do
you think about what i believe like by
all means like help me understand do you
think what i believe is like fair to
believe do you think it's idiotic like
what do you think about what i believe
so let them be the final judge
and once they sort of make that final
judgment this is the kind of tricky
thing is then in the last step
especially for like anti-vaxxers that's
where i would say like you lay your
boundary now that we both understand
like both sides of the equation and you
understand their point of view they
understand your point of view that's
where you can say like i'm going to lay
the boundary you can say i understand
where you're coming from based on the
data i've seen that you know people who
are vaccinated like that more people
with vaccinated are getting sick like 96
of people hospitalized in the icu are
unvaccinated and that also vaccines
don't offer complete protection which is
exactly what you said so i completely
agree with that which is precisely why
i don't want anyone in my house that
hasn't been vaccinated because even
though we've been vaccinated the
protection isn't complete
and so i totally understand and respect
where you're coming from like it makes
sense to me i'm so happy you explained
it
i still won't have you over because
you know i i personally
here's my point of view which i'm
grateful that you've understood
then you can lay your boundary with them
and then it's kind of bizarre but like
if you as you have these conversations
like over and over again with
anti-vaxxers it oftentimes takes time
like you can't do it all in one one
session
um but with people like you know
convincing people to do things like it
can sometimes take time but that's kind
of how you do it right even when we're
talking about like alcohol addiction
they'll say yeah like drinking isn't a
problem or like smoking pot like smoking
product isn't a problem this is the
problem oh help me understand why i like
smoking a pot isn't a problem and then
you kind of listen to oh i see what
you're saying like that makes sense
here's what my experience is as a
psychiatrist can i share that with you
then you kind of share your point of
view you kind of ask them does that make
sense like what do you think about that
is like is it incorrect in some ways am
i logically incorrect like by all means
let me know oh i see what you're saying
that makes sense
um and then sort of like ask that and
then just sort of like leave it up to
them let them be the final judge and you
will be amazed at like how not trying to
convince someone is actually the best
way of con convincing people
so just to kind of summarize
you know if you want to convince someone
of something the first thing you've got
to do is like forget about debating them
because convincing them them that
they're wrong is the worst way
to showing them that they're wrong is
the worst way to convince them that
you're right it's just not a good
effective method
let go of your judgment and treat them
with respect and like the cool thing is
because of emotional mirroring like if
you respect their views they will
respect your views
then understand their viewpoint and if
there's something that's logically
inconsistent don't attack
try to actually get them to understand
and the cool thing is if their view
really isn't logical and you ask for
explanations in an open minded way
they'll begin to see the own pro their
own problems in in their arguments like
because they can't explain it right
so but you don't want to attack because
if you say haha then they'll get
defensive and they'll push you away
then what you can do is ask for
permission to share your your point of
view ask them for feedback about your
point of view and then sort of like lay
out your kind of final boundary hey
here's what i think i understand why you
think what you think here's why i think
what i think i think your view sort of
makes sense um i can see how you've come
to believe that at the same time like i
think that there's a lot of things that
i've have influenced my point of view
that you seem to be discounting so i
understand why we disagree because i
trust the cdc and the fda and and you
know it seems like you've read a lot of
stuff on facebook that says that they're
not to be trusted so i can understand
how we're coming to different
conclusions at the end of the day what
we're going to be doing in this
household or in my household is to
follow like cdc and fda guidelines
and i could i understand that you're you
don't have to believe them but we're
going to choose to
and so i'm sorry but you're not going to
be able to come over
and if you feel persecuted i i can
understand why you feel that way but i
genuinely don't think it's something
personal it's just what we're doing what
we consider to be safe you're doing what
we what you consider to be safe and
those two things just don't line up in
this situation so it's like nothing
personal you can do whatever you want to
it's just we're not going to hang out
with unvaccinated people
and then you'll you'll be surprised
right
what works does that help
do people get that
so don't attack them because they ain't
stupid like the first thing like you
gotta let go of the idea that other
people are stupid
you